CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Code of Conduct

A primary goal of the Comprehensive Kerbal Archive Network (CKAN) is to be inclusive to the largest number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).

All participants and contributors are expected to follow our
[code of conduct][1].

### Reporting bugs and opening issues

Please report bugs and open issues generously. Don't be afraid that your idea is silly, or you're reporting a duplicate. We're happy to hear from you.

### Code and other contributions

Contributions to the CKAN (via pull request or otherwise) *must* be
licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md).

### Submission of CKAN metadata files (.ckan and .netkan files)

Contributions of CKAN metadata files *must* be be contributed under the
[CC-0][2] license.

## Ways to contribute

**No technical expertise is required to contribute to CKAN**

There are many ways to contribute to CKAN. Some require technical expertise and others do not. If you're interested in contributing or want to know more, inquire in our [IRC chat][5].

### Developping CKAN

The CKAN client is a C# application that targets Mono 4.0 and has several GUI, CLI, and backend components that can always use refinement and improvement.
The [issues][3] list (or the [waffle][4] for a better look) is a good place to start.

### Contributing and reviewing metadata

CKAN indexes approximately 1500 mods and more are being added every day. Coding knowledge isn't necessary for contributing or reviewing metadata.
Metadata is written in JSON and is simply a structure for the data and its structure can easily be learned by trial and error.

### Helping sort through issues

At the time of this writing there are 257 open issues in CKAN and it can be very hard to keep track of which ones have resolved themselves over time, which are duplicates, etc. Following up on all these issues is difficult, and any help is appreciated.
Good starting-off points are the [issues][3] list, or the [waffle][4] (an alternate view of the issues list).

### Beta testers

Sometimes features have been fully written but get stuck waiting for someone to test the properly. An hour here or there testing an in-progress feature for bugs would help immensely. Ask in our [chat channel][5] if you'd be interested.

### Keeping the wiki and other documentation up to date

CKAN is a constantly evolving project and as such its documentation is constantly becoming outdated. All that is required is time.

### Providing user support in IRC chat, the forum thread, or our issue tickets

CKAN isn't perfect and neither are its users. Answering questions in the [IRC chat][5], in the [forum thread][6], or in our [issue tickets][3] is highly appreciated.

 [1]:https://github.com/KSP-CKAN/CKAN/wiki/Code-of-Conduct
 [2]:http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
 [3]:https://github.com/KSP-CKAN/CKAN/issues
 [4]:https://waffle.io/ksp-ckan/ckan
 [5]:http://webchat.esper.net/?channels=ckan
 [6]:http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/index.php?/topic/90246-the-comprehensive-kerbal-archive-network-ckan-package-manager-v1161-13-mar-2016/

Commit message:

fix some typos and expand on contribution guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Code of Conduct

A primary goal of the Comprehensive Kerbal Archive Network (CKAN) is to be inclusive to the largest number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and religion (or lack thereof).

All participants and contributors are expected to follow our [code of conduct][1].

### Reporting bugs and opening issues

Please report bugs and open issues generously. Don't be afraid that your idea is silly, or you're reporting a duplicate. We're happy to hear from you.

### Code and other contributions

Contributions to the CKAN (via pull request or otherwise) *must* be licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md).

### Submission of CKAN metadata files (.ckan and .netkan files)

Contributions of CKAN metadata files *must* be be contributed under the [CC-0][2] license.

## Ways to contribute

**No technical expertise is required to contribute to CKAN**

There are many ways to contribute to CKAN. Some require technical expertise and others do not. If you're interested in contributing or want to know more, inquire in our [IRC chat][5].

### Developing CKAN

The CKAN client is a C# application that targets Mono 4.0 and has several GUI, CLI, and backend components that can always use refinement and improvement.

The [issues][3] list (or the [waffle][4] for a better look) is a good place to start.

### Contributing and reviewing metadata

CKAN indexes approximately 1500 mods and more are being added every day. Coding knowledge isn't necessary for contributing or reviewing metadata.

Metadata is written in JSON and is simply a structure for the data and its structure can easily be learned by trial and error.

### Helping sort through issues

At the time of this writing there are 257 open issues in CKAN and it can be very hard to keep track of which ones have resolved themselves over time, which are duplicates, etc.

Following up on all these issues is difficult, and any help is appreciated. Good starting-off points are the [issues][3] list, or the [waffle][4] (an alternate view of the issues list)

### Testing pre-release or in-progress features

Sometimes features have been fully written but get stuck waiting for someone to test the properly. An hour here or there testing an in-progress feature for bugs would help immensely. Ask in our [chat channel][5] if you'd be interested.

### Keeping the wiki and other documentation up to date

CKAN is a constantly evolving project and as such its documentation is constantly becoming outdated. All that is required is time.


Some ideas:

* look for typos

* find out-of-date sections (note them as such)

* write a new section on some aspect of modding or CKAN that no one else has properly described.


### Providing user support in IRC chat, the forum thread, or our issue tickets

CKAN isn't perfect and neither are its users. Answering questions in the [IRC chat][5], in the [forum thread][6], or in our [issue tickets][3] is highly appreciated.

 [1]:https://github.com/KSP-CKAN/CKAN/wiki/Code-of-Conduct
 [2]:http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
 [3]:https://github.com/KSP-CKAN/CKAN/issues
 [4]:https://waffle.io/ksp-ckan/ckan
 [5]:http://webchat.esper.net/?channels=ckan
 [6]:http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/index.php?/topic/90246-the-comprehensive-kerbal-archive-network-ckan-package-manager-v1161-13-mar-2016/
