README.md, before:

# The Comprehensive Kerbal Archive Network (CKAN)

**This document is a draft and may change. Contributions welcome.**

This is a Request For Comments on the Comprehensive Kerbal Archive
Network (CKAN). Please open discussions in the issues list, and
send pull requests to patch this document and associated files.

This document, and all associated files, are licensed under your
choice of the Creative Commons Attribution license 4.0 (CC-BY 4.0),
Lesser GNU Public License (LGPL), or the MIT license (MIT).

## Introduction

There have been many comprehensive archive networks for various
languages and platforms. While the original network was for TeX
(the CTAN), the most successful has been for Perl (the CPAN),
with over 11,000 contributors and 30,000 distributions.

The goal of the CKAN is to provide a network that is easy to use
for both mod authors and end users. By providing a standardised way
to release and install modules, it is hoped that many of the misinstall
problems will be eliminated (reducing the workload on authors), and
a more straightforward path of installing mods is provided (making
it easier for users to use mods).

## Design

The fundamental design of the CKAN is as follows:

- Each *distribution* (a mod and its associated files) *must* have an
  associated meta-data file that describes its contents.
- The meta-data file *must* be detachable from the distribution
  itself. This facilities easy building of indexes, and means meta-data
  can be created independently of the distribution itself, easing
  adoption by authors.
- The meta-data file *should* be included in the distribution whenever
  possible.

## Meta-data

When included in a distribution, the metadata *must* be included
in a file called `META.json`. When extracted from a distribution,
it *should* be given an identical name as the file it came from, but
with the `.zip` or other extension replaced with `.json`. An extracted
meta file *may* be given the same name as the internal shortname
included in the document.

The CKAN metadata spec is based upon the
[CPAN metadata spec](https://metacpan.org/pod/CPAN::Meta::Spec).

### Example Metadata

    {
        "name"     : "Example Mod",
        "shortname": "example",
        "abstract" : "A neat mod for KSP."
        "author"   : [ "Jeb Kerbin <jeb@example.com>" ],
        "license"  : [ "mit" ],
        "version"  : "1.25",
        "prereqs"  : {
            "runtime" : {
                "requires" : {
                    "FooJeb" : "1.23",
                    "Karbol" : "0",
                }
            }
        },
        "release_status" : "stable",
        "min_ksp" : "0.23.0",
        "max_ksp" : "0.23.5",
        "resources" : {
            "homepage" : "http://forum.example.com/post/release-thread",
            "download" : {
                url : "http://gitjeb.example.com/Jeb/ExampleMod/releases"
            }
        }
    }

*TODO*

- Install instructions in meta-data
- Recommends example
- Overrides example (eg: RSS overrides TAC-LS)
- Includes example (for things including MM, Firespitter, etc)
- Config example (config files should be preseved across versions?)
- Should we auto-detect releases when we have github info?

### Metadata description

The metadata file provides machine-readable information about a
distribution.

#### Mandatory fields

##### name

This is the human readable name of the mod, and may contain any
printable characters. Eg: "Ferram Aërospace Research (FAR)",
"Real Solar System".

##### shortname

This is intended as a machine-friendly, short name for the mod.
It may only consist of letters, numbers, underscores, and minus
signs. Eg: "FAR" or "RealSolarSystem". This is the identifier that
will be used whenever the mod is referenced (by `depends`, `conflicts`,
or elsewhere).

##### version

- TODO: Support version_from
- - file (eg: existing KSP versioning mod)
- - config (this might even make sense so modules can be effectively
    sniffed by game elements)
- - Filename (awful, because filenames can change, but could allow
    for GitHub releases to work.)
- Do we allow leading v's? Github tags have them, but they make everything
  else harder.

#### Optional fields

##### resources

    "resources" : {
        "homepage" : "http://examele.com/jebinator",
        "github"   : {
            "url"      : "http://github.com/example/jebinator",
            "releases" : "true"
        }
    }

The `resources` field describes additional information that a user or
program may wish to know about the mod. Presently the following fields
are described

- `homepage` is a URL that goes to the preferred landing page for the mod.
- `github` is a hash which *must* contain a `url` pointing to the
  github page for the project. It *may* include a `releases` key
  with a boolean value (which defaults to false) indicating if github releases
  should be used when searching for updates.

### TODOs

- Automatic generation from github webhooks on release (may require
  a special "from file" version option).
- Tools to create initial META.json.

Commit message:

Shortname recommendations match ModuleManager compatibility.

README.md, after:

# The Comprehensive Kerbal Archive Network (CKAN)

**This document is a draft and may change. Contributions welcome.**

This is a Request For Comments on the Comprehensive Kerbal Archive
Network (CKAN). Please open discussions in the issues list, and
send pull requests to patch this document and associated files.

This document, and all associated files, are licensed under your
choice of the Creative Commons Attribution license 4.0 (CC-BY 4.0),
Lesser GNU Public License (LGPL), or the MIT license (MIT).

## Introduction

There have been many comprehensive archive networks for various
languages and platforms. While the original network was for TeX
(the CTAN), the most successful has been for Perl (the CPAN),
with over 11,000 contributors and 30,000 distributions.

The goal of the CKAN is to provide a network that is easy to use
for both mod authors and end users. By providing a standardised way
to release and install modules, it is hoped that many of the misinstall
problems will be eliminated (reducing the workload on authors), and
a more straightforward path of installing mods is provided (making
it easier for users to use mods).

## Design

The fundamental design of the CKAN is as follows:

- Each *distribution* (a mod and its associated files) *must* have an
  associated meta-data file that describes its contents.
- The meta-data file *must* be detachable from the distribution
  itself. This facilities easy building of indexes, and means meta-data
  can be created independently of the distribution itself, easing
  adoption by authors.
- The meta-data file *should* be included in the distribution whenever
  possible.

## Meta-data

When included in a distribution, the metadata *must* be included
in a file called `META.json`. When extracted from a distribution,
it *should* be given an identical name as the file it came from, but
with the `.zip` or other extension replaced with `.json`. An extracted
meta file *may* be given the same name as the internal shortname
included in the document.

The CKAN metadata spec is based upon the
[CPAN metadata spec](https://metacpan.org/pod/CPAN::Meta::Spec).

### Example Metadata

    {
        "name"     : "Example Mod",
        "shortname": "example",
        "abstract" : "A neat mod for KSP."
        "author"   : [ "Jeb Kerbin <jeb@example.com>" ],
        "license"  : [ "mit" ],
        "version"  : "1.25",
        "prereqs"  : {
            "runtime" : {
                "requires" : {
                    "FooJeb" : "1.23",
                    "Karbol" : "0",
                }
            }
        },
        "release_status" : "stable",
        "min_ksp" : "0.23.0",
        "max_ksp" : "0.23.5",
        "resources" : {
            "homepage" : "http://forum.example.com/post/release-thread",
            "download" : {
                url : "http://gitjeb.example.com/Jeb/ExampleMod/releases"
            }
        }
    }

*TODO*

- Install instructions in meta-data
- Recommends example
- Overrides example (eg: RSS overrides TAC-LS)
- Includes example (for things including MM, Firespitter, etc)
- Config example (config files should be preseved across versions?)
- Should we auto-detect releases when we have github info?

### Metadata description

The metadata file provides machine-readable information about a
distribution.

#### Mandatory fields

##### name

This is the human readable name of the mod, and may contain any
printable characters. Eg: "Ferram Aërospace Research (FAR)",
"Real Solar System".

##### shortname

This is intended as a machine-friendly, short name for the mod.
It may only consist of letters, numbers, underscores, and minus
signs. Eg: "FAR" or "RealSolarSystem". This is the identifier that
will be used whenever the mod is referenced (by `depends`, `conflicts`,
or elsewhere).

If the mod contains a shared library (dll) that would generate a `FOR` pass
in ModuleManager, then the shortname *should* match the name that
ModuleManager would generate for the mod.

##### version

- TODO: Support version_from
- - file (eg: existing KSP versioning mod)
- - config (this might even make sense so modules can be effectively
    sniffed by game elements)
- - Filename (awful, because filenames can change, but could allow
    for GitHub releases to work.)
- Do we allow leading v's? Github tags have them, but they make everything
  else harder.

#### Optional fields

##### resources

    "resources" : {
        "homepage" : "http://examele.com/jebinator",
        "github"   : {
            "url"      : "http://github.com/example/jebinator",
            "releases" : "true"
        }
    }

The `resources` field describes additional information that a user or
program may wish to know about the mod. Presently the following fields
are described

- `homepage` is a URL that goes to the preferred landing page for the mod.
- `github` is a hash which *must* contain a `url` pointing to the
  github page for the project. It *may* include a `releases` key
  with a boolean value (which defaults to false) indicating if github releases
  should be used when searching for updates.

### TODOs

- Automatic generation from github webhooks on release (may require
  a special "from file" version option).
- Tools to create initial META.json.
